doc(recurringjob): backup and restore (#624)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.4.0/snapshots-and-backups/backup-and-restore/restore-recurring-jobs-from-a-backup.md

---
title: Restore Volume Recurring Jobs from a Backup
weight: 5
---

> Longhorn can easily restore volume recurring jobs from a backup volume by restoring a backup since v1.4.0. Longhorn can automatically backup volume recurring jobs to the backup volume configuration on the remote backup target since v1.4.0

Author: Modified. Thanks.

For more information on how backups work, refer to the [concepts](../../../concepts/#3-backups-and-secondary-storage) section.

> When you restore volume recurring jobs from a backup volume by restoring a backup with the setting `Restore Volume Recurring Jobs` enabled, it creates a volume and recurring jobs. If a volume name already exists, the backup and volume recurring jobs will not be restored. If some recurring jobs name already exist, it depends on recurring job settings to reuse the recurring job or create a new recurring job with a specific name.

Reviewer: Please refer `Restore Volume Recurring Jobs` to the corresponding page/anchor.

> For more information on how backups work, refer to the [concepts](../../../concepts/#3-backups-and-secondary-storage) section.
> 
> When you restore volume recurring jobs from a backup volume by restoring a backup with the setting `Restore Volume Recurring Jobs` enabled, it creates a volume and recurring jobs. If a volume name already exists, the backup and volume recurring jobs will not be restored. If some recurring jobs name already exist, it depends on recurring job settings to reuse the recurring job or create a new recurring job with a specific name.
> 
> By default, Longhorn will not automatically restore volume recurring jobs from a backup volume when restoring a backup. You can enable the automatic restoration by Longhorn UI or command line and restore volume recurring jobs from a backup volume by restoring a backup,
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how volume backup works, refer to the [concepts](../../../concepts/#3-backups-and-secondary-storage) section.

When restoring a volume with recurring jobs, Longhorn will restore them together. If the volume name already exists, the volume and the recurring jobs will not be restored.  If the recurring job name already exists but the spec is different, the restoring recurring job will be created with a randomly generated name to avoid conflict. Otherwise, Longhorn will try to reuse existing recurring jobs instead if they are the same as restoring recurring jobs of a backup volume.

By default, Longhorn will not automatically restore volume recurring jobs, users can enable the automatic restoration by Longhorn UI or kubectl.

```

Author: Modified. Thanks.

## Via Longhorn UI

1. Navigate to the **Setting** menu and click **General**
2. Enable the `Restore Volume Recurring Jobs`
3. Navigate to the **Backup** menu
4. Select the backup(s) you wish to restore and click **Restore Latest Backup.**
5. In the **Name** field, select the volume you wish to restore.
6. Click **OK**

## Via Command Line

```bash
# kubectl -n longhorn-system edit settings.longhorn.io restore-volume-recurring-jobs
```

Then, set the value to `true`.

```text
# kubectl -n longhorn-system get setting restore-volume-recurring-jobs
NAME                            VALUE   AGE
restore-volume-recurring-jobs   false   28m
```

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of Volume Specific Setting 
```

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: Volume
metadata:
  labels:
    longhornvolume: vol-01
  name: vol-01
  namespace: longhorn-system
spec:
  restoreVolumeRecurringJob: ignored
  engineImage: longhornio/longhorn-engine:v1.4.0
  fromBackup: "s3://backupbucket@us-east-1?volume=minio-vol01&backup=backup-eeb2782d5b2f42bb"
  frontend: blockdev
```

> And you can overrule the setting `restore-volume-recurring-jobs` by the parameter `spec.restoreVolumeRecurringJob`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can override the setting `restore-volume-recurring-jobs` by the volume spec property  `spec.restoreVolumeRecurringJob`.
```

Author: Modified. Thanks.
